Computer programming is the art and science of writing very precise instructions to tell a computer what you want it to do for you. And it turns out that when you write good instructions, computers could do a lot. I was recently on an airplane, and the person sitting next to me told me their career story. She used to have a job as an executive assistant, and she told me that she had learned to code and wrote a program to monitor her executive's calendar. So that if, you know, her boss did something funny with his calendar, she would get a notification so that she could go fix it. So here's someone that had learned to code, then wrote a little bit of code that actually helped her do her job more efficiently. I think in almost all walks of life, learning to code, getting computers to do what you want, will help you get a lot more done.

Programming, more broadly, has helped advance humanity in so many ways, all of them driven by people writing code. The Hubble Space Telescope's images that have helped us unravel the mysteries of the universe are processed and analyzed using computer programs written by scientists. The particle accelerators that discovered the Higgs boson were only made possible because developers wrote software to analyze the data they collected in order to drive forward our understanding of physics. Our daily use of the internet, too, was made possible only through people writing computer programs. When you pick up your phone and send a message to someone else, well, you're using a computer program that someone else wrote. If you use GPS to navigate, or if you or someone you love uses assistive technology like speech recognition or eye tracking, these are technologies that have changed the lives of so many people with a disability. All of these are programs that someone wrote. At the heart of computer programming is gaining the skill to command machines to do your bidding. Computer programs are sets of precise instructions that tell a computer how to perform a task. Just as a cooking recipe guides you through the steps needed to consistently achieve a delicious result, a computer program provides instructions for a computer to perform a specific task. Being able to program will give you an edge in terms of what you'll be able to accomplish. I see many people using programming to automate repetitive tasks like repeatedly taking, say, PDF documents and extracting relevant data into a spreadsheet. And beyond analyzing data that you or your company may already have, programming also helps you gain brand new insights. I see many teams, including business analysts, for example, increasingly using AI tools like ChatGPT to automatically browse the web, download a bunch of web pages, and synthesize a report to help them gain market insight to learn more about what's happening in some part of the world. And as you learn to code, you better identify and automate more and more of these types of tasks using AI yourself. And it turns out that through programming, you can tell your computer to use AI tools like ChatGPT or other AI language models. By writing just a few lines of code, not you, but your computer can now also go use ChatGPT to help it carry out tasks. The whole part of writing code in this course would be to get your computer to use AI tools via Python so that it could do more for you. Most AI developers, like me, use Python pretty much all the time. And it turns out Python is actually the most popular programming language. Python has a very supportive community of developers. If you have a question, there's so many Python developers around the world. So you can often get someone to help you out or find someone that has the same question. And it turns out that chatbots like ChatGPT and Anthropics Cloud and Google's Gemini also know Python pretty well. And so they can help you out if you get stuck on a problem. So when you're programming and you have a question, I encourage you to try asking a chatbot to help you find a solution, as I'll show you in this course. Today, Python is powering tons of AI applications. Python code is running in many self-driving cars. It's using software that powers chatbots and in many other AI applications, from smart agriculture to healthcare to financial services and on and on and on. And the use of Python extends well beyond that. Many websites, smartphone applications, video games, and more are run using Python.

Programmers are using chatbots a lot in our daily work, and this is making many of us more productive. Previously, if I was stuck with a programming task or didn't know what to do next, I might have to find an expert to ask, and that could take a while to find someone, see if they're available, and so on. But now, whenever you have a question, you can ask an AI chatbot and get an answer right away. Let's take a look. For this course, we're provided a chatbot that you can use directly, and we can type our questions, also called our prompts, into this. For example, if you're wondering, what is programming? I can enter that, and this generates a pretty reasonable answer. Even though we have this chatbot provided right here in this class, feel free also to use third-party chatbots like ChatGPT, Microsoft Copilot, Anthropic Cloud, Google Gemini, or any of the other large number of options out there right now. Let's try another question. I'm going to clear the conversation, hit the trashcan, then hit the check mark to confirm. Now, let me ask, what is Python? This text I just typed is called a prompt, and after typing the prompt, what is Python? Then we hit enter, and this generates a response. For historical reasons, computer programmers will sometimes call this response a completion. But if you hear the word completion, that just means it's the chatbot's response to the prompt, what is Python? Python is high-level programming language, there's either read or write, and so on. Known for a simple syntax, which makes a great choice for beginners. If you're ever curious to learn more, if you ever see something like this, Python is known for a simple syntax. What does syntax mean? It'll give you an answer, and you can read through this if you want, or if not, it's fine. Don't worry about this. But this is actually a workflow that I use myself. I'll use a chatbot, it'll give an answer. If there's part of it that I don't fully follow, I'll just ask a follow-up question. Certainly for introductory level of programming questions, chatbots like these tend to give very good answers. Now, it turns out that there is a program that traditionally is written by brand new programmers. Many, many programmers, including ones that are having fantastic careers today, they read about the news, has started programming, writing a certain program. Let's find out what this is. What is the first program traditionally written by brand new programmers?

The first version written by brand new programmers is a Hello World program. The simple run displays Hello World on the screen. Would you like to see how to write this? Yes, please. We just got a chatbot to write a piece of code for us. It says print and then a bunch of stuff here, but this will tell the computer to print out the message, Hello World. In the next video, we'll take a look at how to actually run this computer program but this grand history when you start your programming to tell your computer to say hello. Your program wakes up the first time and says, Hello World, I'm here. That's why we tell the computer to print Hello World. Just one note, if you try a similar prompt to the chatbots out there like ChaiGV or Cloud or Gemini, you might need to tell those chatbots that you want to use the Python programming language. Just like there are many human languages, there are many programming languages. If you don't tell it that you want Python, there's some chance, hard to say, it may tell you how to print Hello World using a different language than Python. It turns out that if you want to modify the code, maybe I wanted to say hello to me rather than to the world. You can also use a chatbot to try to make changes. Modify the code you just wrote to say, hello to me, not to the world. My name is Andrew, and now it says, Hello Andrew. Now, it turns out that chatbots can write much more complex code as well. Here's an example. Write some code to calculate how many days there are between Christmas, December 25th, and my birthday, April 18th, say in a non-leap year. I have no idea how many days there are between Christmas and my birthday. If you taught to write a program like this, then it'll write a program like this, that actually looks like a correct program. I hope you repeat this with your birthday. I don't care that much about my birthday. Actually, for fun, pick a holiday, pick your birthday, and if you want, you can prompt a chatbot to calculate the number of days from whatever your favorite holiday is and whatever your birthday is. It turns out that because AI can write simple programs, it turns out they're not that good at writing really complex programs, but they're pretty good at writing simple snippets of code. This is why the use of AI is transforming how all of us, how many of us code. 

Now that you've run your first program, I'd like to share with you some tips for learning to code. First is, do try the code. Do pause the videos and do run the code. To test your understanding of how line of code works, try asking yourself questions like, what do I think will happen if I leave a quotation mark out or if I accidentally have two instead of one closing parentheses and then change the code, run it and see if you are right. To give yourself practice, I also encourage you to complete the practice exercises. I also encourage you to use a chatbot as often as you want. Think of the AI chatbot as your buddy or your coding companion who knows Python pretty well and is patient, and just wants to help you out. While going through this course, you might think of some what if or why questions. What if I did that? Why is it like that? Go ahead and ask the chatbot as many questions as you want. You can also ask your chatbot to explain codes and sometimes ask you, how does this code work? What is it doing that might help you understand what a piece of code is actually doing? This is actually what professional software developers do today as well. When there's a piece of code, I don't understand. I will paste it into chatbot sometimes and see if it can help me out. When you're coding and running code is totally fine if something doesn't work the first time round,code are completely expected. After all, this may be a brand new language for you, and as when you're learning to speak Spanish or French for the first time, you won't say everything right the first time round. We should expect to say when you're learning a new programming language. You won't get everything right the first time round. If it doesn't work the first time around, that's totally fine. Just try a different approach if you can think of one or ask the chatbot for help. In fact, the chatbot can also help you read and understand error messages. Finally, instead of just copy pasting answers from the chatbot into your code, consider also reading the chatbot's response to see if the chatbot can share of your new perspective, or teach you something rather than just give you the answer. That way hopefully, you also keep on deepening your understanding of coding. 